---
layout: news_item
title: "H2GIS 1.3.0 Released"
date: "2016-06-03 10:00:00 +0100"
author: ebocher
version: 1.3.0
categories: [release]
---
H2GIS version 1.3.0 use H2 version 1.4.190

### Change log ### 
This version introduces two major changes in H2GIS.

#### H2GIS new license ####

The H2GIS license has been changed from GPL 3 to LGPL3. This modification has been decided by the OrbisGIS team to facilitate innovation by promoting technology transfer. Communities are welcome to use H2GIS in commercial application as a library and re-distribute their application under any license you choose. The effort received from the OrbisGIS team is an invitation to distribute scientific tools in your network and build innovative applications based on it.
Feel free to support the H2GIS development and promote it!


#### H2GIS refactoring ####

The version 1.3.0 proposes a new organization for H2GIS modules and packages to make it easier to understand.
Now all spatial and drivers functions are collected in the H2GIS-functions module.
H2Network functions are stored in the H2Network module. This module is loaded by the H2GIS-EXT project. H2GIS-EXT project is the main project to extend H2GIS-functions with new features (Raster, Topology in the future).


If the user needs only the basic spatial functions it must apply the SQL syntax

{% highlight mysql %}
CREATE ALIAS IF NOT EXISTS H2GIS_SPATIAL FOR "org.h2gis.functions.H2GISFunctions.load";
CALL H2GIS_SPATIAL()
{% endhighlight %}

Otherwise please run the command
{% highlight mysql %}
CREATE ALIAS IF NOT EXISTS H2GIS_EXTENSION FOR "org.h2gis.ext.H2GISExtension.load";
CALL H2GIS_EXTENSION();
{% endhighlight %}


### Download ###

Download H2GIS : <a href="https://github.com/orbisgis/h2gis/releases/tag/v1.3.0" target="_blank">https://github.com/orbisgis/h2gis/releases/tag/v1.3.0</a>


